Migration From Older Versions 
==============

## 4.4 -> 5.0

###Removed skins

**Glossy** and **Classic** skins were deprecated and removed since v5.0.
If you use them, you'll either need to migrate to another [skin](skins.md) or keep using a corresponding CSS file from an older version.

###Major CSS refactoring

Release of v5.0 involves a major CSS overhaul, which may create issues with updating heavily CSS-customized applications: the existing styles may stop working due to the specificity of renewed dhtmlxScheduler styles.
There is no general solution for this, the migration will require investigating and correcting CSS issues.

###POST route in the REST mode fixed

The update also fixes the **POST** (insert) route of dataProcessor in the **REST** mode, the request no longer sends a temporary event id to the server.

The following route:

~~~js
POST /api/{tempId}

//e.g.
POST /api/1234567890
~~~

should be changed to this one:

~~~js
POST /api
~~~

## 4.x -> 4.3

Since v.4.3 the extensions [Week Agenda View](weekagenda_view.md), [Grid View](grid_view.html), [Timeline View](timeline_view.md), [Units View](units_view.md), [Multisection Events](api/scheduler_multisection_config.md) 
are no longer available in the Standard Edition that is distributed under GNU GPL v2.

If you still want to use them, you may either continue using the version 4.2 (or older), or obtain either Commercial or Enterprise license.

Please check the license details [here](http://dhtmlx.com/docs/products/dhtmlxScheduler/#licenses).

## 3.6 -> 4.0

Public API is fully backward compatible.


### Changed defaults

- The default skin is changed to "terrace", ext/dhtmlxscheduler_dhx_terrace.js is removed. To change the skin back to the classic one, just include the related CSS file (codebase/dhtmlxscheduler_classic.css). 
For more details check skins.md.

- api/scheduler_multi_day_config.md is enabled by default, and if you want to revert such a behavior, add:

~~~js
scheduler.config.multi_day = false;
~~~


### Custom skins

Scheduler detects the used skin, based on the name of the CSS file, so if you are using a custom skin (which is not based on "terrace"), rename its css file to *dhtmlxscheduler_{skin name}.css*. 
Also, you can disable the skin auto-detection by adding the following line before *scheduler.init*:

~~~
scheduler.skin = "{skin name}";
~~~

### Deprecated API

The following API is deprecated: getEventText, getEventStartDate, getEventEndDate, setEventText, setEventStartDate, setEventEndDate  (those methods are still available, but will be removed in Scheduler 5.x).

Instead, you can use *scheduler.getEvent()* and set/get properties directly from the event object.


## 3.6 -> 3.7

Fully backward compatible

## 3.5 -> 3.6

Fully backward compatible

## 3.0 -> 3.5

Public API is fully backward compatible. 
  
+ 'Mark now' functionality was moved to the dhtmlxscheduler_limit.js extension. 
+ Scheduler now accepts [JSON generated by dhtmlxConnector](server_integration.md#retrievingdatainjsonformat). 
If there are no special reasons to use XML, consider switching to JSON (will decrease file size and, as a result, increase load speed).

## 2.3 -> 3.0

Public API is fully backward compatible. 
  
For private API, check  [Scheduler 3.0](scheduler_3.0.md).

+ File structure was changed a bit - ext/dhtmlxscheduler_ext.css and dhtmlxscheduler_recurring.css were removed (all styles now available in the dhtmlxscheduler.css).
+ Several templates arguments were changed to match the rest of them: scheduler.templates.agenda_text, scheduler.templates.map_text now use (start_date, end_date, event) as incoming parameters. Before only 'event' was used.

## 2.2 -> 2.3


+ full backward compatibility
+ Swedish locale file was renamed according to the iso 639-1

~~~
sources/locale_se.js => sources/locale_sv.js
sources/locale_recurring_se.js => sources/locale_recurring_sv.js
~~~

## 2.1 -> 2.2


+ full backward compatibility
+ 'createUnitsView' command accepts different set of parameters, but previous syntax will work as well


## 2.0 -> 2.1 


+ formatting rules were corrected, now %d and %m always return 2 digits, if you need the previous behavior, use %j and %n accordingly
+ path to files inside the package is changed a bit

~~~
codebase/dhtmlxgrid_recurring.js => codebase/ext/dhtmlxgrid_recurring.js
codebase/dhtmlxgrid_recurring.css => codebase/ext/dhtmlxgrid_recurring.css
codebase/dhtmlxgrid_units.js => codebase/ext/dhtmlxgrid_units.js
~~~


## 1.0 -> 2.0


+ API and data format are fully backward compatible
+ 'onEventChanged' and 'onEventAdded' events will not fire during data loading
+ Spanish locale renamed from locale_sp.js to locale_es.js
+ 'drag_create' option now controls only the ability to create a new event by dnd, creating a new event by dblclick now is controlled by 'dblclick_create'


@index:
- scheduler_3.0.md



